---
layout: post
title: uncle
description: personal thoughts
date: 2017-12-30
---


***this post is incomplete***

My uncle is exactly what I am scared to become in the future. Depending entirely upon his parent’s income in his mid-forties. Unemployed, lazy and stagnant for the past two decades, he has done nothing to advance his own financial independence or social circle. 

In theory, his income comes from day-trading, which is a fancier word for gambling. From what I know, he loses as much as he makes and survives off an allowance from his parents.

Despite all this, he is not timid or socially anxious. In fact, he is *more* confident than most adults I know, and more charismatic.

My mother, or my uncle’s sister, is a physician who’s career has lead to her financial independence and ability to support three children through university. Her life is almost the opposite of my uncle’s.

Here is the intriguing part. Perhaps because of her childhood, or my uncle’s social ability, my mother thinks my uncle is cool.

This leads to a weird dynamic. 

Because our family is the most exciting part of my uncle’s life, and has been for some time, he is consistent in his attempts to integrate into our family and make himself “fit in”. His attempts are often encouraged by my mother who still sees him as “cool”. 

This whole dynamic bothers me. 

I do not respect someone who has wasted so much of their life and is not willing to take risks to better themselves. I do not respect someone who has had their education payed for, yet it still completely reliant on their parent in their mid-forties. 

In my mind, my uncle is setting a bad example for everyone in the family, especially my siblings. 

My uncle seems *cool* which makes his lifestyle seem *cool*.