---
layout: post
title: "to VENT"
description: "an angry rant"
date: 2016-11-26
---

I think the gravity of what happened tonight has just sunk in. Has never held political office in his life. NEVER. To replace this colossal lack of qualification, there is an argument of how being a successful business man will translate to being a successful president. Two claims are made in that statement. First, that his success was based on his own skill and talent. Second, that he is successful. To address the former claim, it is very useful to come to the realization that his entire business consists of licensing his name to various properties. The other part of his business is real state which was initially developed by his father and was consistently his main source of income. Further, what most people don't realize is the fragility of his wealth. The vast majority of his assets are based on his name and brand; if people forget about or stop liking his name, he is not a billionaire anymore. Perhaps the most damning fact, however, is that if he had simply sat around, let his father's real state develop and put his inheritance in an index fund, he would have more money than he does today. MORE. Second, skill in business is very easily overestimated when one starts with a loan of 1 million dollars and has the safety net of growing real estate company to fall back on. One would think that with all these advantages, hard work and skill cannot be the only factors involved: if everyone started out with the assets that he did, we would not consider him successful.

Yet all of this is pointless. The war on facts perpetrated by the media has very quickly lead to factual arguments being a thing of the past. When there is no longer a baseline of fact, logic cannot apply and all discussion is pointless.

When I really think about it, I think this is what led us to this point. Not the fact that Hillary was a woman, or the Democrats weren’t progressive enough, or that Bernie wasn’t nominated, or that James Comey is Republican, or that voter turnout hit a 7 year low, or that Trump appealed to the silent majority, or that America is still racist, or that Islamic terrorism is overstated, or that fear mongering swayed opinions, or that corporate interests were being refuted, or that Super Pacs were being proved wrong, or that electing Obama gave America a reason to be more conservative…

IT WAS THE FUCKING MEDIA.

Non-facts are being treated like facts. Misinformation is becoming a reality as viable everything else.

The fact of it is that the media, or how we react to the media, has to change. Although it’s a long shot, a very clear line must be drawn between beliefs, facts and non-facts.
---
