---
layout: post
title: flights
description: toronto to vancouver
date: 2017-11-15
---

Boarding a flight is kinda weird. 

Walking from the tunnel from the terminal to the plane I pass by a separate door used only by business class passengers. The first in a series of disappointments begins.
I enter the plane and recall Dante’s three circles of the after life; Inferno, Purgatory and Heaven. Not in that order though.

I walk past Heaven first. What I assume to be aggressively rich people are already seated in business class and endure the somewhat aggressive stares of all the lower class plebs walking past. 

Then premium economy, which I suppose is purgatory. The seats look less like rooms but are nicely padded with ample leg room. 

Next are the “preferred seats” which only serve to dishearten me as as I realize how low I’ve stooped to get on this plane. 

That worry last only 5 seconds, or thirty depending on how efficient the people ahead of you are at packing the overhead compartment, until I arrive at the sea of regular economy seats. 

I glance over the faces of the passengers and can’t help but project an expression of jealousy and longing on them: “Aren’t I special enough to be in the front?”, “Don’t I deserve it?” 

A plane is a unique situation where middle to high-income people are reduced to taking common transport, like a bus. Of course, being on a plane is nothing like being on a bus except of that everyone is reduced to the same level, rid of class separation for the most part. 

The plane demonstrates how much these people are worth, or at least how much they value comfort. 

If I had witnessed one person who somehow seemed to be enjoying the process of seating themselves in economy on this obnoxiously huge flight, it would be hard to assume their net worth because they don’t seem to value comfort like the rest of us.


The act of sharing space with a stranger is so uncomfortable to me that I would assume most people within their means would pay to be rid of that experience. That seems to be the problem. Our society nowadays seems hell-bent on not caring about anything and remaining distant from everyone. 

That’s why it seems weird, to me at least, that all these people have agreed to exist in these circumstances for five hours. Those two things don’t make sense together. 
I guess I’ve found the exact amount of value people place on their personal comfort.


All that said, the actually economy class seat isn’t all that bad. I’m 5’9” and 150 lbs and can sit somewhat comfortably. 

More than your physical dimensions though, I think mastering the politics around seat manipulation are the key to a comfortable flight. Notably, armrest control and seat back position. I like to overemphasize these two points, but my answers for both are simple. 

In terms of the seat back. You have every right to lean your seat back as much as you like. 

In some circumstances a full seat recline would be strange, as is exemplified by the passenger in front of me who is taking a nap at 45 degrees as the flight crew is walking by with lunch, but never unacceptable. The button is there for a reason and it’s stupid not to use it. There is not doubt it causes discomfort your behind neighbour, as I am experiencing now, but that can always be somewhat alleviated with them reclining their own seat. 

Armrests are slightly more difficult. As in most situations, I notice that older people assume the right to them immediately. Ageism. The key here is persistence. Find a purchase on the armrest and stay there. That is assuming the middle, and most valuable position is not taken yet.

AC105 has an absurd amount of people onboard. 
I wonder if the rising property value of a city can be associated with how many people commute there. It is definitely the case on this flight. The line to board was the longest I’ve ever seen and paying rent in Vancouver makes me want to cry.



***this post is incomplete***
